CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

Make a pull request against master. If the Pull request is incomplete, you can still open it, but using the Draft PR feature of Github.

We encourage everyone building in the ecosystem to make contributions to this repo.

## Articles & Resources

If you are contributing to the articles or resources section, then the content must be read by two reviewers who agree that it should be included.

**Note: The two readers can be from any organization.**

## Wallets & Block Explorers

If you would like to be included in the wallet and/or block explorer section then there a few requirements.

- Https - wallet, block explorers
- Publication or have spoken about security audit - wallet
- Twitter or Github to contact the developers - wallet, block explorer

## Ecosystem

If you would like to be added to the ecosystem section, please find your place in the list alphabetically.
Add the name of your project/company and the website or github so people can find out more about you.

## Modules

If you would like to include your module(s) under the module section, then please link to a readme describing the use of your module, if it depends on other module(s) and which versions of the SDK it is compatible with. The module must be complete if not production-ready. If there is an audit associated with the module then please link to it in your module readme or in your repo.

Commit message:

add skip repo + fix linter

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

Make a pull request against master. If the Pull request is incomplete, you can still open it, but using the Draft PR feature of Github.

Make sure to run the linter locally with `npx awesome-lint`.

We encourage everyone building in the ecosystem to make contributions to this repo.

## Articles & Resources

If you are contributing to the articles or resources section, then the content must be read by two reviewers who agree that it should be included.

**Note: The two readers can be from any organization.**

## Wallets & Block Explorers

If you would like to be included in the wallet and/or block explorer section then there a few requirements.

- Https - wallet, block explorers
- Publication or have spoken about security audit - wallet
- Twitter or Github to contact the developers - wallet, block explorer

## Ecosystem

If you would like to be added to the ecosystem section, please find your place in the list alphabetically.
Add the name of your project/company and the website or github so people can find out more about you.

## Modules

If you would like to include your module(s) under the module section, then please link to a readme describing the use of your module, if it depends on other module(s) and which versions of the SDK it is compatible with. The module must be complete if not production-ready. If there is an audit associated with the module then please link to it in your module readme or in your repo.
